# Namespaces

Nerve offers a rich set of predefined tools, organized in namespaces, that the agent can import [via the using directive](tasklets.md#tools). **If a specific model does not support tools calling natively, Nerve will use its own XML based format to enable tool calling.**

The following is the list of namespaces available in Nerve, with the descriptive prompt that will be provided to the model.

## Memory

Use these memory-related actions to store and retrieve any meaningful information obtained or interpreted from output generated by previous actions. Information worth storing as a memory includes anything potentially useful for or relevant to accomplishing your assigned task, goal, or plan. Memories should be deleted if they are no longer relevant to the current goal or if they contain erroneous info as determined by new info obtained through subsequent actions.


* To store a memory: `<save_memory key="my-note">put here the custom data you want to keep for later</save_memory>`
* To delete a memory you previously stored given its key: `<delete_memory key="my-note"/>`

## Time

* To pause for a given amount of seconds: `<wait>5</wait>`

## Goal

Use these actions to update your current goal.

* When circumstances changed and a new goal is required: `<update_goal>your new goal</update_goal>`

## Planning

Use these actions to maintain a structured plan for achieving your current goal, thinking the problem through step-by-step. Each step must build upon the steps that precede it, moving methodically towards accomplishing your current goal:

* To add a step to your plan: `<add_plan_step>complete the task</add_plan_step>`
* To remove a step from your plan given its position: `<delete_plan_step>2</delete_plan_step>`
* To set a step from your plan as completed: `<set_step_completed>2</set_step_completed>`
* To set a step from your plan as incomplete: `<set_step_incomplete>2</set_step_incomplete>`
* Sometimes, you will hit a dead end because your original plan turned out to be the wrong direction to explore step-by-step for this particular task. If this is occurring, you will know because output from enacting your current plan is failing to move you tangibly closer to your current goal. Whenever you reach a dead end, you should clear your existing plan and start from scratch with a new one by using: `<clear_plan/>`

## Task

Use these actions to set the task as completed.

* When your objective has been reached: `<task_complete>a brief report about why the task is complete</task_complete>`
* If you determine that the given goal or task is impossible given the information you have: `<task_impossible>a brief report about why the task is impossible</task_impossible>`

## Filesystem

You can use the filesystem actions to read files and folders from the disk.

* To read the contents of a file from disk: `<read_file>/path/to/file/to/read</read_file>`
* To list the files in a folder on disk: `<list_folder_contents>/path/to/folder</list_folder_contents>`
* To append a structured JSON object to the log file: `<append_to_file>{
      "title": "Example title",
      "description": "Example description.",
    }</append_to_file>`

## Knowledge

Use these actions to search and retrieve information from your long term storage.

* All information from your long term storage is true. To search for information on your long term storage: `<search>what is the biggest city in the world?</search>`

## Web

You can use the web actions to execute HTTP requests.

* To add a permanent header to all future requests (useful for cookies, session information and authentication tokens):
 `<http_set_header name="X-Header">some-value-for-the-header</http_set_header>`
* To reset your current session and clear all headers: `<http_clear_headers/>`
* To create and send an HTTP request with the specified method: `<http_request method="GET">/index.php?id=1</http_request>`

## Shell

Use this action to execute shell commands and get their output.

*  `<shell>ls -la</shell>`
